Update rbac docs (#1445)
jenkins-x/jx-docs: content/architecture/access-control.md

---
title: Access Control
linktitle: Access Control
aliases: [/rbac/]
description: Managing Access Control

> date: 2017-02-01

Reviewer: tbh I don't really know what all these tags mean & how they are used - but April 2019 surely, for this new content?

Author: it's the creation date, and this is a renamed file but the diff doesn't show it.

publishdate: 2017-02-01
lastmod: 2017-02-01
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "architecture"
    weight: 101
weight: 110
sections_weight: 101
draft: false
toc: true
---

> Jenkins X uses a Role Based Access Control (RBAC) policies to control access to its various resources.  The enforcement of the policies is provided by [Kubernetes' RBAC support](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins X uses Role Based Access Control (RBAC) policies to control access to its various resources.  The enforcement of the policies is provided by [Kubernetes' RBAC support](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).
```

> Jenkins X uses a Role Based Access Control (RBAC) policies to control access to its various resources.  The enforcement of the policies is provided by [Kubernetes' RBAC support](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jenkins X uses Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) policies to control access to its various resources.  The enforcement of the policies is provided by [Kubernetes' RBAC support](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).
```

> As a given [Team](/about/features/#teams) can have a number of [Environments](/about/features/#environments) (e.g. Dev, Staging, Production) along with dynamic [Preview Environments](/developing/preview/) it can be a challenge keeping all the [`Role`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) and [`RoleBinding`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) resources from [Kubernetes RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) in sync with all the various namespaces and members of your team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a given, [Teams](/about/features/#teams) can have a number of [Environments](/about/features/#environments) (e.g., Dev, Staging, Production) along with dynamic [Preview Environments](/developing/preview/). It can be a challenge keeping all the [`Role`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) and [`RoleBinding`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) resources from [Kubernetes RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) in sync with all the various namespaces and members of your team.
```

Author: I'm not convinced about how this reads, the two are linked  A causes B so should not be separate.

> In order to make this management easier Jenkins X creates a new [Custom Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) called [`EnvironmentRoleBinding`](architecture/custom-resources/#environmentrolebinding) which allows you to associate a `Role` labelled with `jenkins.io/kind=EnvironmentRole` with as many `Users` or `ServiceAccounts` as you like. Then as Environments are created or the `Role` or `EnvironmentRoleBinding` in the Dev environment is modified, the [`role controller`](/commands/jx_controller_role/#jx-controller-role) ensures that the configuration is replicated to all the environment namespaces by creating or updating all of the `Role` and `RoleBinding`s per namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make this management easier, Jenkins X creates a new [Custom Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) called [`EnvironmentRoleBinding`](architecture/custom-resources/#environmentrolebinding) which allows you to associate a `Role` labeled with `jenkins.io/kind=EnvironmentRole` with as many `Users` or `ServiceAccounts` as you like. As Environments are created or the `Role` or `EnvironmentRoleBinding` in the Dev environment is modified, the [`role controller`](/commands/jx_controller_role/#jx-controller-role) ensures that the configuration is replicated to all the environment namespaces by creating or updating all of the `Role` and `RoleBinding`s per namespace.
```

> Roles are per Team so it is possible to have special roles per team, or to use common names for roles but have them tweaked on a per team basis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Roles are per Team so it is possible to have special roles per team, or to use common names for roles but have them customized for each team.
```

## Security Implications for the admin namespace

> Jenkins X stores various configuration / settings (e.g. `Users`, `Teams`) in the main admin namespace (jx), therfore care should be taken when granting roles in the default `jx` team as allowing users to edit some of these files may allow them to escalate their permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jenkins X stores various configuration and settings (e.g., `Users`, `Teams`) in the main admin namespace (`jx`). Be careful when granting roles in the default `jx` team as allowing users to edit some of these files may allow them to escalate their permissions.
```

> Jenkins X stores various configuration / settings (e.g. `Users`, `Teams`) in the main admin namespace (jx), therfore care should be taken when granting roles in the default `jx` team as allowing users to edit some of these files may allow them to escalate their permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins X stores various configuration / settings (e.g. `Users`, `Teams`) in the main admin namespace (jx), therefore care should be taken when granting roles in the default `jx` team as allowing users to edit some of these files may allow them to escalate their permissions.
```

> It is therefor not recommended to grant non admin users access to this namespace but to create teams and grant users access to those when using a shared cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of granting non-admin users access to the `jx` namespace, create teams and grant users access to those when using a shared cluster.
```

> It is therefor not recommended to grant non admin users access to this namespace but to create teams and grant users access to those when using a shared cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is therefore not recommended to grant non admin users access to this namespace but to create teams and grant users access to those when using a shared cluster.
```

## Default Roles

> Out of the box Jenkins X ships with a collection of default `Role` objects you can use in the `jenkins-x-platform` template.  You can of course create your own if you wish, but any edits may be lost when Jenkins X is upgraded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jenkins X ships with a collection of default `Role` objects you can use in the `jenkins-x-platform` template.  You can create your own if you wish, but any edits may be lost when Jenkins X is upgraded.
```

> Out of the box Jenkins X ships with a collection of default `Role` objects you can use in the `jenkins-x-platform` template.  You can of course create your own if you wish, but any edits may be lost when Jenkins X is upgraded.

Reviewer: I don't really get what the "use in the `jenkins-x-platform` template" bit means - these are just roles that can be associated with users & used with `jx edit userroles`?

[viewer](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jenkins-x-platform/blob/master/jenkins-x-platform/templates/viewer-role.yaml)

> : The `viewer` role allows access to read projects, builds and logs.  It does not allow access to sensitive information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The `viewer` role allows access to read projects, builds, and logs. It does not allow access to sensitive information
```

Author: I much prefer the oxford comma but I thought we did not use it :)

[committer](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jenkins-x-platform/blob/master/jenkins-x-platform/templates/committer-role.yaml)

> : In addition to the `viewer` role `committer` allows the user to trigger builds and import new projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The`committer`role allows the user to trigger builds and import new projects.
```

Author: @knylander it adds this as well as all of the things in the viewer role - ie they can see builds read project and logs AND do the stuff here.  I don't think this is clear from the changes.

[owner](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jenkins-x-platform/blob/master/jenkins-x-platform/templates/owner-role.yaml)
: The owner role allows users to modify all team resources.

## Adding Users

To add users use the [jx create user](/commands/jx_create_user/) command:

```shell
jx create user --email "joe@example.com" --login joe --name "Joe Bloggs"
```

> ## Changing user roles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Changing User Roles
```

> To modify the roles for a user use [jx edit userroles](/commands/jx_edit_userroles/):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To modify the roles for a user, use [jx edit userroles](/commands/jx_edit_userroles/):
```

```shell
jx edit userrole --login joe
```
 

> If you omit the `--login` (`-l`) flag the command will prompt you to pick the user to edit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you omit the `--login` (`-l`) flag, you will be prompted to pick the user to edit.
```

> e.g. to make a user `joe` have the `committer` Role (and remove any existing roles):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to make a user `joe` have the `committer` Role (and remove any existing roles):
```

```shell
jx edit userrole --login joe --role committer
```

> If you have fine grained roles and want to grant multiple roles to a user you can specify the roles as a comma separated list:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have fine-grained roles and want to grant multiple roles to a user, you can specify the roles as a comma-separated list:
```

```shell
jx edit userrole --login joe --role committer,viewer
```

> Once you modify the roles for a user this will modify the `EnvironmentRoleBinding` and then the [role controller](/commands/jx_controller_role/#jx-controller-role) will replicate these changes to all the underlying Environment namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modifying a user's roles also changes the `EnvironmentRoleBinding`. The [role controller](/commands/jx_controller_role/#jx-controller-role) will replicate these changes to all the underlying Environment namespaces.
```

Author: it doesn't also change it - that is exactly what it does.
